# Oatmeal: a tiny CS-SCF/CS-MP2, CS-4C-SCF and molecular integral kernel toy model 

## Features
Currently the implemented features are:
- Complex scaled Self Consistent Field routines:
    - Restricted Hartree-Fock (RHF).
    - Complex Scaled RHF (CS-RHF) with occupation selection.
    - Complex Scaled UHF (CS-UHF) with occupation selection.

- Complex scaled four component Self Consistent Field routines:
    - Complex Scaled four component Krammers Unrestricted Prototype.

- Complex scaled Møller-Plesset perturbation theory:
    - Complex scaled Restricted MP2.
    - Complex scaled Unrestricted MP2.

- Simple OS/MD $S$, $T$, $V$ and ERIs matrix element evaluation for generalized $l$ CGTOs.

For a complete list of Features, Tutorials, and the results of some calculations see the [documentation](docs/). 

Most of the code is tested in [Jupyter notebooks](notebooks/) where both results and development code and explanations can be run interactively. 

## Installation
Instal as a module to be able to import it. Clone, then:
```shell
cd Oatmeal
pip install -e . -r requirements.txt
```

Since the code at this moment is dependent on PySCF, and there is no availiable Wheel for PySCF in windows, it can only be run in Linux or MacOS.

## Project Structure

```shell
Oatmeal/
|- py_mods/
|    ─ src/
|        - integrals/
|        - SCF/                
|            ─ RHF.py         
|            - CSRHF.py
|            - CSUHF.py    
|        - MP2/
|            - CSMP2.py
|- tests/
|    - py_tests/              # Implementation tests
|- notebooks/                 # Jupyter notebooks with examples
|- docs/
|- setup.py
```

## Usage 
The current implementation depends on the integrals to be calculated elsewhere. In particular, PySCF's integrals were used. A custom code to perform integral evaluation was built, but is currently abysmally slow in comparison to other well established codes. Still an example of an "dependency-less" SCF calculation can be seen [here](notebooks/Integral%20evaluation/5_My_first_SCF.ipynb).

For usage examples see see the [Jupyter notebooks](notebooks/). 

## Tests
First the test data must be generated by running:
```shell
./run_generators.sh
```
in the `tests/py_tests/data/data_generators` directory.

Then, a reduced set of tests can be run using `pytest` on the root directory:
```shell
pytest .
```

Or the full set of tests can be run with:
```shell
pytest . -c all.ini
```


----


## References
For a complete list of references see [References](docs/References.md).
